{\rtf1\ansi\deff0 {\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}\fs22 # PawSagip 2.0 User Manual (User Flow Order)\par \par Version: 1.1  \par Project: PawSagip 2.0 - Community Pet Rescue and Adoption Platform  \par Last updated: March 5, 2026\par \par ## 1. Getting Started\par \par 1. Open PawSagip in your browser.\par 2. Use desktop or mobile.\par 3. Sign in if you want account-based features (saved reports, applications, settings).\par \par ## 2. Home Page (First Screen)\par \par The Home page is the primary user journey screen.\par \par Actual section order in Home:\par \par 1. Hero + Global Search\par 2. Alerts section\par 3. Report section\par 4. Adoption section\par \par ---\par \par ## 3. Hero + Global Search\par \par From the top part of Home:\par \par 1. Use the search box to find alerts/adoptions by keyword, place, species, or name.\par 2. Press Enter or click Search.\par 3. Select a result:\par    1. Alerts result opens details modal.\par    2. Adoption result opens adoption view/page.\par \par Use this first when you already know what case/pet you are looking for.\par \par ---\par \par ## 4. Alerts Section (Home Section #1)\par \par In Alerts, users can:\par \par 1. Browse recent cases.\par 2. Filter by category (Lost/Found/Cruelty/Adoption/All).\par 3. Open a card to view full details.\par 4. Use available actions inside details modal:\par    1. Contact details (if available)\par    2. Hotline action\par    3. Open in Google Maps (if coordinates exist)\par \par ### Alerts Details Modal Quick Guide\par \par 1. Review report info: type, status, location, time, notes.\par 2. Review media (main + landmark media if present).\par 3. Close modal to continue browsing.\par \par ---\par \par ## 5. Report Section (Home Section #2)\par \par Use this section to submit a new case.\par \par ### Report Submission Steps\par \par 1. Select report type (`Lost`, `Found`, or `Cruelty`).\par 2. Select species.\par 3. If species is `Other`, add custom species text.\par 4. Pin exact location using map picker.\par 5. Set date/time (`When`) or use auto.\par 6. Add description/condition/features as applicable.\par 7. Upload media:\par    1. Main photo/video\par    2. Optional landmark media\par 8. Submit report.\par \par ### Important Notes\par \par 1. Required fields must be completed before submit.\par 2. `Other` species handling is constrained to preserve valid format.\par 3. Accurate map pin improves rescue response.\par \par ---\par \par ## 6. Adoption Section (Home Section #3)\par \par In Adoption section:\par \par 1. Browse adoptable pet cards.\par 2. Open pet details.\par 3. Proceed to adoption application flow.\par 4. Use `Find my match` for recommendations.\par \par ### Find My Match\par \par 1. Open `Find my match`.\par 2. Answer matching questions.\par 3. Generate recommendations.\par 4. Review ranked pets and reasons.\par 5. Open a recommended pet and proceed to apply.\par \par ---\par \par ## 7. Adoption Application Flow\par \par When applying:\par \par 1. Fill applicant information.\par 2. Complete questionnaire.\par 3. Upload required proof/media (if required by form).\par 4. Review and submit.\par 5. Track status later in account dashboard.\par \par ---\par \par ## 8. Top Navigation Pages (Outside Home)\par \par After Home sections, users can directly open top-nav pages:\par \par 1. Alerts page (`/alerts`) for broader browsing.\par 2. Adoption page (`/adopt`) for full adoption listing.\par 3. Report form page (`/report-form`) for dedicated reporting experience.\par 4. Contacts page (`/contacts`).\par \par ---\par \par ## 9. Account Area (Signed-In Users)\par \par In `My Account` / dashboard:\par \par 1. Overview panel\par 2. My Reports\par 3. Adoption Applications\par 4. Settings\par \par ### Settings Quick Guide\par \par 1. Toggle sound alerts.\par 2. Test alert sound.\par 3. Manage notification sound:\par    1. Current selected sound card supports play/pause.\par    2. `Edit sound` opens a modal picker.\par    3. Choose, preview, and save sound.\par 4. Toggle browser notifications and test system notification.\par \par ---\par \par ## 10. Onboarding / Tutorial Controls\par \par If first-time tutorial appears:\par \par 1. Next: Enter or Right Arrow\par 2. Back: Left Arrow\par 3. Skip: Esc (with confirmation)\par \par ---\par \par ## 11. Admin / Barangay Operational Flow\par \par For authorized users:\par \par 1. Review submitted reports.\par 2. Update report status/decision.\par 3. Promote eligible records to adoption.\par 4. Review adoption applications and decisions.\par 5. Maintain species metadata and aliases (if enabled).\par \par ---\par \par ## 12. Troubleshooting\par \par ### Sound not playing\par \par 1. Ensure Sound alerts is enabled.\par 2. Interact once (browser audio policy).\par 3. Check device volume and browser permissions.\par \par ### Notifications not appearing\par \par 1. Enable browser notifications in Settings.\par 2. Grant browser permission.\par 3. Verify OS notification settings.\par \par ### Report submit problems\par \par 1. Recheck required fields.\par 2. Verify network.\par 3. Retry media upload.\par \par ### Map/location issues\par \par 1. Re-open map picker and re-pin.\par 2. Allow location access.\par 3. Confirm generated location text.\par \par ---\par \par ## 13. Data and Governance Notes\par \par 1. Anonymous reporting may be available in selected flows.\par 2. Data/media are handled via Supabase-backed services.\par 3. Admin actions should follow barangay policy and data governance.\par \par ---\par \par End of Manual\par \par  }
